---
title: "2025-02-05 & what happened for the past 2 weeks"
author: Charles Ancheta
date: 2025-02-05T00:08:59-07:00
tags:
  - daily
  - personal
---

Well, that was short-lived. My last post was
[17 days ago](/post/2025/01/18-19/). Maybe the fact that I made an actual blog
post made this too high-effort. If it wasn't for Jherzey reminding me about my
website, I probably wouldn't have started again. Here we go...

The past 2 weeks was consumed by tons of distractions, with no opportunity to
get bored. I binge-watched Over Run Over on YouTube, and once that was done,
binge-watched Trauma Code on Netflix. Then I started playing Half Sword. I have
sunk into a new low when it comes to boredom by actually playing video games. I
say every day "tomorrow I'll get it together", and I don't 😭[^1].

I do have some good news though. I've been doing flashcards so consistently,
that I've finally reviewed all cards the in base deck and have started adding
more cards. We've also started planning out new features for CitySync so I will
have to grind hard this month.

EDIT: It might be too early to celebrate since I still suck at Cantonese. I
tested my dim sum knowledge with Jesse, and I tried to say the word for sesame
balls (煎堆). I accidentally flipped the initials and said _din1 zeoi1_ instead of
_zin1 deoi1_[^2].

She did say it's better to embarass myself in front of her than look dumb in
Hong Kong, though, and I think it's very effective. I don't think I'll forget 煎堆
anymore.

[^1]: BTW today marks 10 years since I've arrived in Canada. Maybe today will be
my last day to make excuses.

[^2]: My thought process was crazy, though. I've always called "sesame ball" as
_buchi_. I didn't even know the English word for it until yesterday. But I did
know that it's _Jīan duī_ in Standard Chinese. Like come on, it was already
pretty close in pronunciation and I still didn't make that connection in my head
😭. It really is true that when in battle, only what you truly know comes out.
